
Session proposals for Fall Meeting 2020 are due by 15 April ([submit here](https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting/Pages/submit-a-proposal)). 

New Session Types this year! 

Virtual Components with Virtual Participation.

Half-day of creative programming around a creative theme. 

### We are proposing a Water and Health.+.+.  Session. Stay Tuned.

[Link to AGU GeoHealth Google Doc](   ) where we are drafting our session abstract ideas with colleagues from the new Water and Health Technical Committee. 

### Invitation to Submit GeoHealth Session Proposals for the 2020 AGU Fall Meeting

What is the AGU?
The American Geophysical Union (AGU) is an international, nonprofit scientific association whose mission is to promote discovery in Earth and space science for the benefit of humanity. The society is organized into sections that encompass disciplines such as Atmospheric Science, Biogeosciences, and Hydrology as well as applied and interdisciplinary fields such as Global Environmental Change, Natural Hazards, Societal Impacts, and GeoHealth.

What is the GeoHealth section?
GeoHealth, the newest AGU section, aims to advance our understanding of the complex interactions between the environment (including earth, water, soils and air) and the health, well-being, and continued progress of human populations in concert with ecosystems. Our members come from diverse backgrounds in the geophysical, biological, and public health sciences and share a passion for research at the nexus of Earth and health sciences.

Why should I propose a GeoHealth session for the 2020 annual meeting?
AGU's Fall Meeting is the largest international Earth and space science meeting in the world. The meeting includes hundreds of GeoHealth presentations and posters covering topics including vector-borne diseases, climate and health, air pollution and water pollution, and other environmental health hazards. All sessions are proposed and organized by AGU members, who are empowered to select the topics that will be of greatest importance and interest to meeting attendees. We are actively soliciting new sessions convenors to expand the breadth and depth of GeoHealth content at the annual meeting. The next AGU Fall Meeting will be held in San Francisco in December 2020.

How does the process work?
Each session proposal is submitted by a primary convenor and one or more co-conveners. The conveners pitch their session idea by submitting a 150-word description. The primary convenor must be an AGU member, but annual membership costs only $50/year ($20/year for students) and includes a variety of benefits including discounted meetings registration. The conveners must submit an application, including a brief session description, via the AGU website before the April 15th deadline. The applications are evaluated by the AGU program committee and selections are made in June. 

What kind of session should I propose?
AGU has many types of sessions and you can indicate your preferences (oral, panel, short talk, poster, eLightning) when you submit a proposal. Your proposed session can also choose up to four sections for Cross-listing which will help abstract authors find your session.  If you have two AGU member co-conveners with primary affiliations in different sections, and your session showcases transdisciplinary science, you can propose a Co-organized session.  If you are not a member of AGU, but you are a member of a co-sponsoring organization, you could Co-Sponsor a session (read more on Co-sponsored sessions here),   Union sessions are the most broad topics of interest to members with expansive interests, beyond individual disciplines, and not cross-listed with sections. SWIRL themes can be selected for any session to help make your session and interdisciplinary research linkages discoverable.  New session types include Virtual and Creative Half-Day Programming. 

How are presenters selected?
The conveners can formally invite up to two presenters who will be asked to submit when abstract submission opens in June. Additional presenters can choose to submit abstracts to the session during the abstract submission period. The conveners can promote the session to their scientific communities and encourage public submissions to their session.

How do I get more information?
See the AGU session proposal website for information on how to submit an application. 
https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting/Pages/Submit-a-Proposal
If you have questions, you can contact Michael Wimberly, co-chair of the AGU GeoHealth Communications and Outreach Committee at mcwimberly@ou.edu. 


### Join the GeoHealth Section

We hope to have another strong show of GeoHealth sessions in 2020, building on the success of the GeoHealth sessions at last December’s Fall Meeting. We particularly encourage under-represented minorities, early-career scientists, and students to submit. To optimize GeoHealth session offerings, section leadership has the following requests and offers:

If you are planning to submit a GeoHealth session, please email FMPC_GH@agu.org with your proposed topic or title. This will allow us to flag overlapping sessions that will be stronger if merged and to identify emerging gaps in the program that need to be filled with additional session proposals.

Please email FMPC_GH@agu.org if you are planning to list your session as a “panel” format. We will have to limit the total number of panels that GeoHealth requests, so advance discussion will be helpful.

New to AGU? On the fence about submitting a session? Please email us at FMPC_GH@agu.org with your idea, and we can follow up to help you decide whether and how you want to convene the session.

### 2020 AGU Honors Program

Seeking nominations!

AGU is seeking nominations for the 2020 Honors Program. You can learn more about the AGU Honors Program, and individual awards, here.  The deadline for all AGU Fellows nominations and Union Awards, Medals and Prizes is March 15. Tips for preparing a strong nomination can be found here. 
